All right, so now that we have completed writing our ensure browser method in our last lecture, but
now we are going to see how we can build our first two links for our playwright MCP server that we are
starting to build from our last lecture.
So the first thing which we have to do is to write a method which is going to perform a navigation operation.
So basically, as we talked in our last lecture, we have to navigate to a page before we actually perform
any operation.
So basically we need to just go to a page uh, and from by opening a browser.
And then we need to navigate to that particular page.
And then we can perform a click operation or fill operation on any control after the locator is been
found.
And then we perform any of the operation that we are looking for.
Right.
So in order to do all of these operation, we need to have the tooling capabilities to our MCP server.
If not, that operation is never going to happen.
So we have already seen that in our earlier sections of this course.
It's that's exactly what we're going to be doing over here as well.
So the first tool that I'm going to build right now is going to be the navigate tool.
But before I actually do that I'm going to first write it as a method.
Right.
So this is exactly the same way like how we did even in our earlier sections of this course.
Uh, first of all, we always write a method.
And then from the method we just decorate that method as a tool.
Right.
That's exactly what I'm going to be doing over here as well.
So I'm going to say navigate.
And this is going to be the URL which I'm going to be giving in.
And I'm going to return something out after this method has been doing right.
So I'm going to say navigate to the URL.
And uh yeah.
Just going to say navigate to the URL to the given URL, the given URL, something like that.
This is what I wanted to really do over here.
And in order for me to navigate over here I'm going to say await underscore ensure browser.
So this is going to be the first thing which I need to call every single time.
The reason why I need to do it is because I need to have the browser instance like the playwright instance,
the browser instance, and the page instance in first place.
If I don't have these, then it is not really going to work, right?
Because it's going to be giving us null pointer exception.
So we have to ensure that the objects are being set.
That's the reason why this is the first and most important tool that needs to be invoked for the first
time.
And once we have this, I'm then going to say, uh, wait, uh, over here, uh, and I'm going to say
this page.
See this page, uh, in playwright, if you have already worked in playwright, you know what I really
mean about that.
So in order to navigate, you need to use the go to method.
See that this method just comes in.
Right.
So in this method I need to pass the URL that I'm going to navigate.
So I'm going to say URL.
And if you want to also have a waiting mechanism you can also do that.
So you can just say wait until is equal to a Dom content loaded, right?
You can also do that over here just to ensure that the the weighting is already happening there or not.
Right.
That is an additional thing that you can do.
And one more additional thing that you can do it is you can give a feedback loop to the to the user
in the cloud desktop to say that you have navigated to this particular page so you can get the title
and then you can return that information as well.
So I'm going to say return, and I'm just going to do a bit of a formatting.
I'm going to say navigating or navigated.
To and I'm going to say the URL uh, and a page title, which is going to be.
This title for that matter.
Right.
So that's what I'm going to be returning back to the, uh, to the client, which is the cloud desktop
over here.
And we can also actually add a try catch block as well.
So I'm just going to say try uh over here, uh, and let's try.
I'm just going to do an indentation because this this is Python.
So everything is indentation over here.
And I'm going to say exception as E over here.
And I'm going to say error navigating to the URL.
Yeah I like this code right.
So this is going to be the navigate method that we have.
And now you may ask Karthik how can I actually decorate this method as a tool.
Well guess what.
It's so easy.
Remember in our earlier sections of this course when we were talking about the link chain, in order
to make a method as a tool, we use the tool method.
In order to do the decoration over here we have to use.
At MCP dot there is something called as tool method.
That's all.
This is the only thing that we have to do.
The moment you do this, this method will now turns out to be a tool of your AI agent that you are building,
which is mind blowing, right?
That is the first thing that we have to do in order to make this as a tooling and the same way, a similar
way.
I'm going to write one more capability this time, which is going to be uh, maybe the click operation.
So I'm going to say copy.
I don't know what I just did.
Clear.
And over here I'm just going to say copy paste and the next tool which I'm going to build this this
time is going to be the click operation.
So I'm going to say click.
And for the click we are not going to pass the URL.
Rather we're going to use the selector to perform any of the operations.
So I'll just say string.
And over here I'm going to say click an element on the page probably click and element on the page.
Uh and in order to do the click operation I'm just going to say click.
We don't need the URL, blah blah blah.
Rather just the selector over here I need to pass in.
Um, and we don't need the title as well I'm going to say.
Clicked the element and I can just give the element which is nothing but the vector.
I'll get rid of these from here.
And if there is any exception happen I can say error clicking uh element.
And then I'm going to just say select R.
And then I can also say E for the exceptions if that happens any.
Right.
So this is pretty cool.
So this is how you can actually build these two tools over here which is amazing.
The last thing which I wanted to do it is to call these, uh, these, uh, toolings capabilities.
Right.
So the way I can do it is I just need to, uh, put this if underscore name is equal to, uh, main,
something like that.
If it is going to be main, then I'm going to write a try catch block over here.
I'm going to say MCP run.
And on the Like.
Finally, I'm also going to do a bit of a clean up.
This time.
I'm going to say if the browser, uh, which is going to be running already, just do a close for me
over here.
And if there is this, uh, playwright, uh, instance which is open as well, then try to stop it as
well for me.
And once you have done that, uh, you can just print that the, uh, playwright MCP server is running
and resources are cleaned up.
Right.
So this is what we have to do over here.
That's it.
So this way we are going to have two tools this time, which are going to perform the navigation operation
and click operation for me.
Uh, and then if we call this entire uh code right now, this is just going to work, I'll quickly show
you how this is going to work in our next lecture.